How to use git with the stacks project
--------------------------------------

I assume you have cloned the git repository using the command

	git clone git://paard.math.columbia.edu/var/git/stacks

Then you will have a directory called stacks. In the rest of this howto we
assume that you have changed directory into stacks.


Warning
-------

It is easy to make mistakes using git, so it is a good idea to back up your
changes by simply compying them somewhere safe before trying something tricky.


Pulling updates
---------------

From time to time type

	git pull

to automatically pull new updates from the server paard.math.columbia.edu


Working on the project (simplest version)
-----------------------------------------

Create a new branch that you will use to make changes to the project.

	git branch newbranch

The reason for doing this is that it is a bit confusing to deal with the
consequences of pulling updates when you have edited the master branch. Switch
to the new branch by using the command

	git checkout newbranch

Of course you can switch back to the master branch by executing

	git checkout master

whenever you want. Making sure that you are on newbranch can be done by typing

	git branch

the branch that has a * next to it is the one you are currently on. Assuming
you are on newbranch, make edits, etc. Whenever you want to add your changes to
newbranch you type

	git commit -a

It brings up an editor where you can write a short commit message. Keep going
like this until you are happy with the result and want to submit your changes.
To do this, make sure you have committed your latest changes, and the type

	git format-patch -n master..newbranch > /tmp

This should create one or more files in /tmp which you can email for inclusion
in the project. If there are a lot of them look into using git send-email to
email them all at once.


Keeping in sync with paard.math.columbia.edu
--------------------------------------------

If you are worried about keeping in sync with the repository at
paard.math.columbia.edu you can do the following steps

	git checkout master
	git pull changes
	git checkout newbranch
	git rebase master
	
The result of these steps is that the master branch is synced with the master
branch at paard.math.columbia.edu and that your branch newbranch is rebased on
this synced version of the master branch. Actually the last step may lead to
``conflicts''. This means that you have edited some lines that have also been
changed in the origin repository (but in a different way). Whenever this
happens you have to ``resolve'' the conflicts. This is done by editing the
affected files A, B,... (you can find them by grepping for <<<< and >>>>),
editing the troublesome spots in A, B,..., marking the file done by

	git add A,
	git add B,
	...

and then continuing with the rebase procedure typing

	git rebase --continue

until done. Create and email patches using git format-patch as explained above.
(In fact this is the reason for using git rebase instead of git merge.)


More information
----------------

There is a lot more you can do with git. For example you can set it up so that
the maintainer of the stacks project can pull changes directly from your own
repository. To learn more see http://git-scm.com and
http://www.kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/docs/
